Feat/2567 monitor oss (#3689)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/v2.1/reference/internals/metrics.md

# TYPE http_api_request_duration_seconds histogram
http_api_request_duration_seconds_bucket{handler="platform",method="DELETE",path="/api/v2/authorizations/:id",response_code="204",status="2XX",user_agent="Chrome",le="0.005"} 0
--
```

### API requests total

Number of HTTP requests received.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP http_api_requests_total Number of http requests received
# TYPE http_api_requests_total counter
http_api_requests_total{handler="platform",method="DELETE",path="/api/v2/authorizations/:id",response_code="204",status="2XX",user_agent="Chrome"} 1
--
```

### Query request bytes

Count of bytes received.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP http_query_request_bytes Count of bytes received
# TYPE http_query_request_bytes counter
http_query_request_bytes{endpoint="/api/v2/query",org_id="48c88459ee424a04",status="200"} 727
```

### Query request count

Total number of query requests.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP http_query_request_count Total number of query requests
# TYPE http_query_request_count counter
http_query_request_count{endpoint="/api/v2/query",org_id="48c88459ee424a04",status="200"} 2
```

### Query response bytes

> Count of bytes returned by the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Count of bytes returned by the query endpoint.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP http_query_response_bytes Count of bytes returned
# TYPE http_query_response_bytes counter
http_query_response_bytes{endpoint="/api/v2/query",org_id="48c88459ee424a04",status="200"} 103
```

## InfluxDB object and query statistics

### Buckets total

> Number of total buckets on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total number of buckets on the server.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP influxdb_buckets_total Number of total buckets on the server
# TYPE influxdb_buckets_total counter
influxdb_buckets_total 9
```

### Dashboards total

> Number of total dashboards on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total number of dashboards on the server.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP influxdb_dashboards_total Number of total dashboards on the server
# TYPE influxdb_dashboards_total counter
influxdb_dashboards_total 2
```

### Info

Information about the InfluxDB environment.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP influxdb_info Information about the influxdb environment.
# TYPE influxdb_info gauge
influxdb_info{arch="amd64",build_date="2021-12-28T22:12:40Z",commit="657e1839de",cpus="8",os="darwin",version="v2.1.1"} 1
```

### Organizations total

> Number of total organizations on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total number of organizations on the server.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP influxdb_organizations_total Number of total organizations on the server
# TYPE influxdb_organizations_total counter
influxdb_organizations_total 2
```

### Scrapers total

> Number of total scrapers on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total number of scrapers on the server.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP influxdb_scrapers_total Number of total scrapers on the server
# TYPE influxdb_scrapers_total counter
influxdb_scrapers_total 0
```

### Telegrafs total

> Number of total telegraf configurations on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total number of Telegraf configurations on the server.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP influxdb_telegrafs_total Number of total telegraf configurations on the server
# TYPE influxdb_telegrafs_total counter
influxdb_telegrafs_total 0
```

### Token services total

> Number of total tokens on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total number of API tokens on the server.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP influxdb_tokens_total Number of total tokens on the server
# TYPE influxdb_tokens_total counter
influxdb_tokens_total 23
```

### Uptime seconds

InfluxDB process uptime in seconds.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP influxdb_uptime_seconds influxdb process uptime in seconds
# TYPE influxdb_uptime_seconds gauge
influxdb_uptime_seconds{id="077238f9ca108000"} 343354.914499305
```

### Users total

> Number of total users on the server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total number of users on the server.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP influxdb_users_total Number of total users on the server
# TYPE influxdb_users_total counter
influxdb_users_total 84
```

## QC (query controller) statistics

### All active

> Number of queries in all states

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of queries in all states.
```

### Queueing active

Number of queries actively queueing.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP qc_queueing_active Number of queries actively queueing
# TYPE qc_queueing_active gauge
qc_queueing_active{org="48c88459ee424a04"} 0
--
```

### Queueing duration seconds

Histogram of times spent queueing queries.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP qc_queueing_duration_seconds Histogram of times spent queueing queries
# TYPE qc_queueing_duration_seconds histogram
qc_queueing_duration_seconds_bucket{org="48c88459ee424a04",le="0.001"} 2
--
```

### Requests total

Count of the query requests.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP qc_requests_total Count of the query requests
# TYPE qc_requests_total counter
qc_requests_total{org="48c88459ee424a04",result="success"} 2
--
```

### Read request duration

Histogram of times spent in read requests.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP query_influxdb_source_read_request_duration_seconds Histogram of times spent in read requests
# TYPE query_influxdb_source_read_request_duration_seconds histogram
query_influxdb_source_read_request_duration_seconds_bucket{op="readTagKeys",org="48c88459ee424a04",le="0.001"} 0
--
```

## InfluxDB service statistics

### Bucket service new call total

> Number of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of calls to the bucket creation service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_bucket_new_call_total Number of calls
# TYPE service_bucket_new_call_total counter
service_bucket_new_call_total{method="find_bucket"} 6177
--
```

### Bucket service new duration

> Duration of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Duration of calls to the bucket creation service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_bucket_new_duration Duration of calls
# TYPE service_bucket_new_duration histogram
service_bucket_new_duration_bucket{method="find_bucket",le="0.005"} 5876
--
```

### Bucket service new error total

> Number of errors encountered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of errors encountered by the bucket creation service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_bucket_new_error_total Number of errors encountered
# TYPE service_bucket_new_error_total counter
service_bucket_new_error_total{code="not found",method="find_bucket_by_id"} 76
```

### Onboard service new call total

> Number of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of calls to the onboarding service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_onboard_new_call_total Number of calls
# TYPE service_onboard_new_call_total counter
service_onboard_new_call_total{method="is_onboarding"} 11
```

### Onboard service new duration

> Duration of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Duration of calls to the onboarding service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_onboard_new_duration Duration of calls
# TYPE service_onboard_new_duration histogram
service_onboard_new_duration_bucket{method="is_onboarding",le="0.005"} 11
--
```

### Organization service call total

> Number of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of calls to the organization service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_org_call_total Number of calls
# TYPE service_org_call_total counter
service_org_call_total{method="find_labels_for_resource"} 10
```

### Organization service duration

> Duration of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Duration of calls to the organization service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_org_duration Duration of calls
# TYPE service_org_duration histogram
service_org_duration_bucket{method="find_labels_for_resource",le="0.005"} 10
--
```

### Organization service new call total

> Number of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of calls to the organization creation service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_org_new_call_total Number of calls
# TYPE service_org_new_call_total counter
service_org_new_call_total{method="find_org"} 1572
--
```

### Organization service new duration

> Duration of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Duration of calls to the organization creation service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_org_new_duration Duration of calls
# TYPE service_org_new_duration histogram
service_org_new_duration_bucket{method="find_org",le="0.005"} 1475
--
```

### Organization service new error total

> Number of errors encountered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of errors encountered by the organization creation service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_org_new_error_total Number of errors encountered
# TYPE service_org_new_error_total counter
service_org_new_error_total{code="not found",method="find_orgs"} 1
```

### Password service new call total

> Number of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of calls to the password creation service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_password_new_call_total Number of calls
# TYPE service_password_new_call_total counter
service_password_new_call_total{method="compare_password"} 4
```

### Password service new duration

> Duration of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Duration of calls to the password creation service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_password_new_duration Duration of calls
# TYPE service_password_new_duration histogram
service_password_new_duration_bucket{method="compare_password",le="0.005"} 0
--
```

### Password service new error total

> Number of errors encountered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of errors encountered by the password creation service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_password_new_error_total Number of errors encountered
# TYPE service_password_new_error_total counter
service_password_new_error_total{code="forbidden",method="compare_password"} 1
```

### Pkger service call total

> Number of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of calls to the `pkger` service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_pkger_call_total Number of calls
# TYPE service_pkger_call_total counter
service_pkger_call_total{method="export"} 3
```

### Pkger service duration

> Duration of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Duration of calls to the `pkger` service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_pkger_duration Duration of calls
# TYPE service_pkger_duration histogram
service_pkger_duration_bucket{method="export",le="0.005"} 0
--
```

### Pkger service template export

> Metrics for resources being exported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics for exported resources.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_pkger_template_export Metrics for resources being exported
# TYPE service_pkger_template_export counter
service_pkger_template_export{buckets="0",by_stack="false",checks="0",dashboards="0",endpoints="0",label_mappings="0",labels="0",method="export",num_org_ids="1",rules="0",tasks="0",telegraf_configs="0",variables="0"} 3
```

### Session service call total

> Number of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of calls to the session service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_session_call_total Number of calls
# TYPE service_session_call_total counter
service_session_call_total{method="create_session"} 3
--
```

### Session service duration

> Duration of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Duration of calls to the session service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_session_duration Duration of calls
# TYPE service_session_duration histogram
service_session_duration_bucket{method="create_session",le="0.005"} 3
--
```

### Session service error total

> Number of errors encountered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of errors encountered by the session service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_session_error_total Number of errors encountered
# TYPE service_session_error_total counter
service_session_error_total{code="not found",method="find_session"} 4
```

### Token service call total

> Number of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of calls to the token service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_token_call_total Number of calls
# TYPE service_token_call_total counter
service_token_call_total{method="delete_authorization"} 3
--
```

### Token service duration

> Duration of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Duration of calls to the token service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_token_duration Duration of calls
# TYPE service_token_duration histogram
service_token_duration_bucket{method="delete_authorization",le="0.005"} 1
--
```

### Token service error total

> Number of errors encountered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of errors encountered by the token service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_token_error_total Number of errors encountered
# TYPE service_token_error_total counter
service_token_error_total{code="not found",method="delete_authorization"} 1
```

> urm new call total
> Number of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### URM new call total
Number of calls to the URM (unified resource management) creation service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_urm_new_call_total Number of calls
# TYPE service_urm_new_call_total counter
service_urm_new_call_total{method="find_urms"} 6451
```

> urm new duration
> Duration of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### urm new duration
Duration of calls to the URM creation service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_urm_new_duration Duration of calls
# TYPE service_urm_new_duration histogram
service_urm_new_duration_bucket{method="find_urms",le="0.005"} 6198
--
```

> user new call total
> Number of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### User new call total
Number of calls to the user creation service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_user_new_call_total Number of calls
# TYPE service_user_new_call_total counter
service_user_new_call_total{method="find_permission_for_user"} 4806
--
```

> user new duration
> Duration of calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### User new duration
Duration of calls  to the user creation service.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP service_user_new_duration Duration of calls
# TYPE service_user_new_duration histogram
service_user_new_duration_bucket{method="find_permission_for_user",le="0.005"} 4039
--
```

## InfluxDB task statistics

### Task executor errors counter

> The number of errors thrown by the executor with the type of error (ex. Invalid, Internal, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number of errors thrown by the executor with the type of error (ex. Invalid, Internal, etc.)
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_executor_errors_counter The number of errors thrown by the executor with the type of error (ex. Invalid, Internal, etc.)
# TYPE task_executor_errors_counter counter
task_executor_errors_counter{errorType="internal error",task_type="system"} 1183
--
```

### Task executor promise queue usage

Percent of the promise queue that is currently full.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_executor_promise_queue_usage Percent of the promise queue that is currently full
# TYPE task_executor_promise_queue_usage gauge
task_executor_promise_queue_usage 0
```

### Task executor run duration

> The duration in seconds between a run starting and finishing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Duration (in seconds) between a task run starting and finishing.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_executor_run_duration The duration in seconds between a run starting and finishing.
# TYPE task_executor_run_duration summary
task_executor_run_duration{taskID="08017725990f6000",task_type="",quantile="0.5"} NaN
--
```

### Task executor run latency seconds

> Records the latency between the time the run was due to run and the time the task started execution, by task type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Latency between the time task run's scheduled start times and actual start times, by task type.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_executor_run_latency_seconds Records the latency between the time the run was due to run and the time the task started execution, by task type
# TYPE task_executor_run_latency_seconds histogram
task_executor_run_latency_seconds_bucket{task_type="system",le="0.005"} 0
--
```

### Task executor run queue delta

> The duration in seconds between a run being due to start and actually starting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Duration (in seconds) between a task run's scheduled start time and actual start time.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_executor_run_queue_delta The duration in seconds between a run being due to start and actually starting.
# TYPE task_executor_run_queue_delta summary
task_executor_run_queue_delta{taskID="08017725990f6000",task_type="",quantile="0.5"} NaN
--
```

### Task executor total runs active

Total number of workers currently running tasks.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_executor_total_runs_active Total number of workers currently running tasks
# TYPE task_executor_total_runs_active gauge
task_executor_total_runs_active 0
```

### Task executor total runs complete

> Total number of runs completed across all tasks, split out by success or failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total number of task runs completed across all tasks, split out by success or failure.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_executor_total_runs_complete Total number of runs completed across all tasks, split out by success or failure.
# TYPE task_executor_total_runs_complete counter
task_executor_total_runs_complete{status="failed",task_type="system"} 1384
--
```

### Task executor workers busy

Percent of total available workers that are currently busy.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_executor_workers_busy Percent of total available workers that are currently busy
# TYPE task_executor_workers_busy gauge
task_executor_workers_busy 0
```

### Task scheduler current execution

Number of tasks currently being executed.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_scheduler_current_execution Number of tasks currently being executed
# TYPE task_scheduler_current_execution gauge
task_scheduler_current_execution 128
```

### Task scheduler execute delta

> The duration in seconds between a run starting and finishing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Duration (in seconds) between a task run starting and finishing.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_scheduler_execute_delta The duration in seconds between a run starting and finishing.
# TYPE task_scheduler_execute_delta summary
task_scheduler_execute_delta{quantile="0.5"} NaN
--
```

### Task scheduler schedule delay

> The duration between when a Item should be scheduled and when it is told to execute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delay between when a task is scheduled to run and when it is told to execute.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_scheduler_schedule_delay The duration between when a Item should be scheduled and when it is told to execute.
# TYPE task_scheduler_schedule_delay summary
task_scheduler_schedule_delay{quantile="0.5"} NaN
--
```

### Task scheduler total execute failure

> Total number of times an execution has failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total number of times a scheduled task execution has failed.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_scheduler_total_execute_failure Total number of times an execution has failed.
# TYPE task_scheduler_total_execute_failure counter
task_scheduler_total_execute_failure 0
```

### Task scheduler total execution calls

> Total number of executions across all tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total number of scheduled executions across all tasks.
```

--
```

## InfluxDB task statistics

### Task executor errors counter

The number of errors thrown by the executor with the type of error (ex. Invalid, Internal, etc.)

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_executor_errors_counter The number of errors thrown by the executor with the type of error (ex. Invalid, Internal, etc.)
# TYPE task_executor_errors_counter counter
task_executor_errors_counter{errorType="internal error",task_type="system"} 1183
--
```

### Task executor promise queue usage

Percent of the promise queue that is currently full.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_executor_promise_queue_usage Percent of the promise queue that is currently full
# TYPE task_executor_promise_queue_usage gauge
task_executor_promise_queue_usage 0
```

### Task executor run duration

The duration in seconds between a run starting and finishing.

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_executor_run_duration The duration in seconds between a run starting and finishing.
# TYPE task_executor_run_duration summary
task_executor_run_duration{taskID="08017725990f6000",task_type="",quantile="0.5"} NaN
--
```

### Task executor run latency seconds

> Records the latency between the time the run was due to run and the time the task started execution, by task type.

Author: ```suggestion
Records the latency between the time the run was due to run and the time the task started execution, by task type.
```
Latency between the task run's scheduled start time and the execution time, by task type.

> Records the latency between the time the run was due to run and the time the task started execution, by task type.

Author: ```suggestion
Latency between the task run's scheduled start time and the execution time, by task type.
```

#### Example

```sh
# HELP task_executor_run_latency_seconds Records the latency between the time the run was due to run and the time the task started execution, by task type
# TYPE task_executor_run_latency_seconds histogram
task_executor_run_latency_seconds_bucket{task_type="system",le="0.005"} 0
--
```

### Task executor run queue delta

> The duration in seconds between a run being due to start and actually starting.

Author: ```suggestion
Duraction (in seconds) between the task run's scheduled start time and the execution time,
```
